# What is unit testing?

Unit testing is used by you - the developer. The unit tests are not part of the distributed application. They are not for use by the testers in your group. Let them write their own tests. They shouldn't be getting their instructions from the developers anyway. The testers should be testing the client's requirements not the developer's interpretations.

When should you unit test? Just like voting in Chicago: early and often.

What should you test? Everything. Your unit test is complete when every method in your application is included in a unit test. Some methods like private methods will be included indirectly. 

Unit testing helps you discover bugs before they become bugs. The act of thinking through how to test your code will uncover silly and stupid programming errors.
Unit testing forces you to think through edge cases that are difficult for some to think through when you're just trying to get something to work.
Unit tests are the best documentation you could write. When well written, a unit test describes how code works. It also requires update when behavior changes, so it'll never be out of date; when it's not accurate, it'll break your build.
Unit testing encourages better design. Knowing you need to write a unit test will force design considerations that otherwise take years of experience to realize. This can be a double-edge sword though, as I've seen bad design lead to worse design when unit tests are forced onto terrible existing code (i.e.: "I'll just make this thing public so I can access it from my test.")
Most importantly, unit testing provides a very important safety net for you. If you want to add a feature, refactor some code or hand your app off to another maintainer, there's a very clear signal if something breaks and the broken unit test will tell you where it's broken and how it's supposed to work.
The trick to unit testing is finding a good balance. If you're building a one-off app that you'll never touch once published, you can probably get away with little to no unit tests (it may not be worth it). Just know that going back and adding unit tests after the fact is not nearly as useful as writing it when you write the code you're testing (before or immediately after). If you're building a product that you plan to grow and maintain, unit testing will be invaluable, even if the app is simple. Just don't over-do it. Writing too many unit tests can be crippling in that the smallest change can require fixing hundreds of unit tests (EDIT: see further thoughts on this in the replies below). In general don't shoot for more than 70% line or branch coverage or you're probably overdoing it.